[Music]
109 29
hello and welcome to today's episode oh
I don't even know what it is
bench press sessions with Australia's
best bench presses that's nice to be in
order of heaviest Politis Reece King
best bench press in competition 250 what
weight class 140 so I'm the next year
and that's a 110 kilo class 240 kilo
bench Kevin you are hundred kilo class
do 22.5 is that the Australian record
that's all talking oh yeah okay good so
we've got three record holders it's
really commenting and that's all we're
referring to today and we have someone
who's still running on island time and
that's a big bath
it's okay - Kevin says we're just gonna
leave her there so that's apparently
it's coconut time so here's a little bit
late we're gonna start without him he's
actually the strongest bench presser of
the lot he's a super heavyweight
Australia's best bench presser of the
powerlifters that is with 270 kilograms
don't think he's there today but we're
working towards a very similar
competition day for all of us except for
Rhys when's your next month first my
first of my approached any weights out
there now and the rest of us are 11
weeks
from today so we're all in kind of
similar situation and today for the
video we thought while we're all
benching together we'll do a number that
we can all achieve which is going to be
200 kilograms and it's going to be an
AMRAP session Kevin and I had a
gentlemen's agreement that we're going
to do just one set is that right yes
good okay prediction how many reps on
200 today seven girls my guess for you
as well my guess was seven or eight how
many reps sorry that was my guess and
five for myself my guest of abasa was 10
now we're gonna see how he operates the
first time I met him he warmed up on a
hundred 80 kilo benchpress which really
quickly that's that's that's I don't
even know how he does that but whatever
he's a different guy but he's late today
and then we're not gonna wait for him so
we're gonna start and and tough luck
Vassar you start when you get you
[Music]
okay the way that we like to warm up is
by training our opposing muscles so
benchpress is poor so we're just doing a
ball
we like the lat pulldown because it
teaches us to put our shoulder blades in
the exact position that we want to put
our shoulder blades in through the
entire bench press which is not here in
that position there when the bars on the
chest the shoulder blades are retracted
and depressed another way of thinking
about that is we're pulling our shoulder
blades back and down towards the back
pockets and the lat pulldown is the best
exercise so a lot of people think about
carrying a horizontal push which is a
bench press with the horizontal forward
you label row but what I like about
without pull down for the bench press is
the vertical motion of the Batman helps
us depress the scapula that's one of the
most important positions for scapula or
the shoulder blades is depression or
down towards the back pockets the reason
is it activates the collapse and the
laps are very important in stabilizing
the shoulder we'll do a few says yeah
[Music]
pun intended that's very funny mate
thank you see that I think it on head so
pleased very depressed after that oh
really
goodbye goodbye how could the person was
done
[Music]
yeah so that's big faster you just saw
the size difference what are you waiting
on
[Music]
people take so this is vast sub things
that we got the opportunity to introduce
ourselves
I've been 40 not one hundred and fifty
four point nine kilos what's your best
bench pressing comp to simply turn on 70
which is Australia's best in terms of
competition also training for pro Roy in
the super heavyweight class which is
going to be the day after so Kevin and I
are both going to be competing in 110
class you're competing in 140 class
and you're going to be the super
heavyweight all right so we're doing
some warmups
can you please
thank you so that's huh yo John tequila
and rap is on the class today how many
reps eat doing prediction so I predict
that Kevin's doing three I'm doing five
races doing seven or two more degrees
okay
I'm pretty content to mess up but last
night that's not the excuse to study
okay so all the excuses set it again
he's got Enzo and another excuse which
is penis cell phone can you explain what
that is [__] penny slots in there
Milo box works good whatever emotional
okay okay so it's something that
powerlifters have to combat is squatting
and bench pressing in the same week
heavy low bus what's usually caused a
lot of pain in the elbows and the
shoulders and it's something that we're
all kind of combating at the moment so
vas has it I have a receipt Kevin you
know Timmy doesn't squat heavy enough
carries good today okay let's go this is
what we use in competition just found
out the races using a different [__] in
this competition but majority rules
majority wins
okay something to pay attention to we're
all using the exact same technique but
the way that it presents with each
different body type shape and size it
presents very differently from lifted a
lift up not just shape and size also
levels of mobility okay so the fader
backrub from the balls of the feet he's
pushing his heels down would sweat
towards the ground so that's going to
create pressure here there's not much of
an arch but that's going to create an
Archie so the option the lower back
creates an arch in the upper back the
arch in the upper back allows us to pull
the shoulder blades back and down simply
with everything off future to kill our
collars 20 kilo bar this is everything
that you'll see in the competition that
we're competing in it's an electro bar
electro power bar 20 kilograms two and a
half kilogram columns these Reds are 25
so this is 75 kilograms actually why
don't we check out Kevin's technique and
let's talk through the arch that we're
going to use and the reason why I'd like
to use Kevin as an example is he's
definitely not the biggest arch out of
all of us
and this just comes down to his mobility
is the best kind of Oliver and it's the
best advantage for the bench press so
starting here let's say it starts slowly
he starts with his head off the bench
the reason why he starts with his head
off the bench is so that he can bring
his feet back far enough and really wet
you tight into position from here he
gets up
balls of these faiths and pushes his
heels downwards and maintains that
downward pressure the whole time as he
slides into position coming under the
bars your eyes are behind the bar
heels down short legs back and down
towards his back pocket the whole time
he's using a wide concrete the maximum
legal width which is index finger on the
outer ring of the polythene he held his
breath through the entire set the breath
hold is is paired with this whole
extension movement at the moment you
exhale you can lose maybe a millimeter
not much but we don't want to lose the
millimeter so I'm going to do the same
thing as Kevin but you're gonna see that
I'm not as mobile but I'm following the
exact same steps and that's a lot of
people have been mentioning your girl's
positioning as well yeah so it's
different from from the trimmer lift so
when I use a deadlift I built what
laughs but either way on all of my lives
I used a relatively high belt position
and the reason being my breathing
muscles are my diaphragm
okay the diaphragm lines the rib cage so
it's right here these are the muscles
that I'm using to breathe with and
that's where I like to put the belt
exactly over the top
so a lot of people like the belt a
little bit lower and the reason for this
is it's in between the pelvis and the
ribs for me that doesn't feel good
doesn't offer me the best support some
people that does but for me I feel that
this is the most supporting position is
higher up right over the top or closer
to my diaphragm which is the exact
masters or to briefly
[Music]
same position he's paid it backs up on
the balls of his feet
wheezing his shoulder blades back and
down and he's holding his breath through
the whole set same thing way back make
way back up on the balls of his feet
slides into position pushing his heels
down squeezing Shawn white backing down
that's is the least amount of fall out
of the lot no offense he's not the
biggest mention so you could argue and
say he's about the most strength in this
movement but the less technical the
least technique Kevin uses the same girl
position his main he prefers up there as
well these other boys do not that you're
going to use a girl for pension yeah
do you actually faster your belt
position you Father
[Music]
how many to do Kevin
so check out the difference in rocket
carries on one which is the last setting
all of us I'm on - so cabbie and I have
a shorter range of motion to travel
Reese and Vassar both on fire so they
have to travel a lot further so
technically that's a disadvantage for a
benchpress long arms and a bench press
is not so good it's actually an
advantage for deadlifts so it's usually
a trade-off but something that's a bit
of a point to brag about laconic very
well rounded athletes all of us so
Greece's Australia's best bench press up
but he's also Australia's got dead lift
up in that weight class and swapna
careful his of the best total which is
what 1032 kilograms
okay that's our whatever
you know the funny thing this is the
funny thing so you know I've coached
both of these athletes and I don't think
about each of their totals as their
they're competing I think about how
we're going to get the most out of these
performances for each other
[Music]
so this is our favorite research not
really plugging the brand but
technically they are gangster raps and
the reason why they are our favorite is
their nice soft material but the way
that he raps it check it out
we like to clench the fists okay if you
have a loose hand it kind of crushes
your hand so clench the fist and we go
over the joint so we go up the hand a
little bit okay and then and then we
slightly roll it down a big area that
people make is is everything is below
the wrist joint so you've still got full
movement in the restaurant it doesn't
make sense so you've got to cover the
wrist joint so that we can protect the
risk from the amount of pressure that
we're about to place through it
this much weight there's not much
pressure for Kevin as it gets heavier
load will be
are you feeling up the YouTube network I
feel okay actually because my are best
press two times in a week but all of us
do we all follow a very similar program
and my squad session is at the start of
the week so my heavy bench press session
is at the very end of the week so that
was five days ago so my arms are feeling
okay
my first benchpress session my arms are
always very sore so that's I squat on
Monday and then I'll bench press I'll
choose that Wednesday that's when it's a
really painful day so I've decided to
have a lighter benchpress day then and
then my heavy session I save it for the
Saturday
[Music]
okay so pay attention to how everyone
acts during the sets as well focus
lifters you got quiet lifters you got
relax mrs. I have to say we're all
relatively relaxed the basses definitely
the most relaxed which I don't think is
a good thing I don't think he realizes
it yet because I think he's a lot
stronger than the numbers are suggesting
so he'll have a laugh right before the
set which I don't agree with but but he
doesn't seem to give a [__] but I do I
do think that it does make a difference
I prefer to be focused we used to do the
whole back slap thing and the angry
thing not much of that anymore
I'd say race is probably the most
aggressive of all of us but with the
bench press you don't get to the back
slap or any of those things I was like
we focus especially
yeah but like before I actually did some
calm yeah that bus is definitely the
most like relaxed Kevin's very relaxed
as well
he's more quiet in quite just by nature
but he's a very relaxed guy I know I
like the things that were the bench
press as well I like to be more focused
then aggressive and I'm not relaxed at
all
come and check this out as I know people
are wondering this because I've been
asked the question a lot see the size of
these hooks of our rolls around in this
makes the difference when we're setting
up so if you see me when I'm holding the
barbell when people are about to unwrap
it
Rhys is the opposite reflux that so he
can push that back himself but most of
my lifters prosper when we pushed the
bar to the front of the rack so that we
could set up like that so that's what
happened because that extra piece of
movement every millimeter makes a
difference
[Music]
as you know we're going up in 25 next
one will be 175 and that's the last
warm-up and then 200
[Music]
to me my girls five today but I get
whenever I see bats I everything that he
does is far less than ideal so thank you
a lot of people would would be
intimidated to coach people like this to
be honest with you because they're so
big and strong and actually growing up
in the personal training industry I
would have very much been intimidated to
coach someone stronger than me but just
because he's so brutally strong doesn't
mean he's doing everything right
sleeeeep shocking how many hours sleep
did you get so three three hours sleep
that's that's not good we improved that
we improve his performance you just saw
what he's having for breakfast
cheeseburgers filling a fish
coke and fries that's far less than
ideal did you see how long it took him
to get set up in that bench the guy's
got a lot of strength he didn't take his
time at all like there's a lot of things
that we can improve on basa and what
we're continually refining once we we
nail all of that hopefully we will one
day hopefully we will one day there this
guy's got some potential where are we
are to now we've got Kevin 175 kilograms
so I mentioned bastard strength with
Kevin's focus and Kevin's technique
that's 300 kilograms
I'm making it out like Tiffany's not
strong and it's just a pure technician
but he's got a lot of strengths as well
like you can't bench press what he bench
presses without strength but he's
definitely the most technical difficulty
[Music]
this is how it's gonna be this is what
you think of me it's going down like I
told you this is how it's gonna be
I'll be the last man standing here I'm
not going anywhere it's going down like
I taught you
I'll be the last man standing here
I'm gonna wrap you
I'm gonna rock
[Music]
I'm gonna wrap you I'll have you begging
for mercy begging for mercy Oh
[Music]
I'm the baddest mother a [__] here and
I'm about to make it dear it's going
down like a torture I'm the baddest
mother I've been here I'm gonna rock you
I'm gonna Rob you
I'm gonna write you I'll have you
begging for mercy begging for mercy Oh
[Music]
dangerous
get ready cuz here I come
I'm about to come and get me so forget
it
I don't know about you I'll have you
begging for mercy begging for mercy
[Music]
so that's our benchpress session done it
was a very low volume day in terms of
total sets performed we all did two sets
each except reseated one set he stuck to
the plan we all planned I'm just doing
one set each but we all got excited we
did an extra seven we were able to
that's it for now when might come back
later on I know I'm going to come back
later on and do my accessories after
lunch that's the luxury that I have with
only Moe and Jim and having a whole day
that I spared for a training session I
like to do my accessory exercises on a
second session but for today our main
work was done heaviest Politis 10 reps
two sets arguably could have done 11 but
if you did 11 I wouldn't have counted
anyway
who the hell does a little bit eight
reps five reps three ribs two sets are
you sensitive to scents one set great
day hope you guys enjoyed it if you guys
want to see anything else from either of
us write in the comments below click
like subscribe hope you enjoyed it see
you next time
[Music]